Draft, Discussion, RFC: New Issue Guidelines for Hyprland. (#1024)
hyprwm/hyprland-wiki: pages/Contributing and Debugging/Issue-Guidelines.md

---
title: Issue Guidelines
---

> Inspired by Ghostty's approach to Github issues, we do not allow regular users to open issues anymore.
> 
> This page is intended for people who want to open an **issue** on the **Hyprland** repo. Other hyprwm repositories
> still use issues normally.
> 
> ## Why?
> 
> We are volunteers, doing this in our free time. Out of respect, please read this document
> _fully_ before posting an issue _or_ discussion. If you can spend a few minutes reading this,
> it saves us, the developers, much more time overall, so we can deliver fixes and features faster.
> 
> Thank you!

Reviewer: Not a nit, but I think "we do not allow *regular users* to *open issues anymore*" is inherently aggressive, and somewhat repulsive. Imo this should be reworded in a way that communicates the motive behind this change, and a clear solution to what is available to the user. You don't want the user to go on with their day instead of trying to report the issue either, do you?

```suggestion
Due to the influx of low quality or incomprehensible issues, we prefer to begin possible bug reports as *discussions*, and elevate them to issues if they can be confirmed by a trusted user to be relevant. 

## Why?

We are volunteers, doing this in our free time. Out of respect, please read this document
_fully_ before posting an issue _or_ discussion. If you can spend a few minutes reading this,
it saves us, the developers, much more time overall, so we can deliver fixes and features faster.

Thank you!

<!-- 
Note: I am not sure if Hugo has something for admonitions (like GFM) but this would make much more sense as a highlighted note that catches user's attention
-->

This page is intended for people who want to open an **issue** on the **Hyprland** repo. Other hyprwm repositories still use issues normally.
```

Author: it does. I'll make it.

## Issue Guidelines

> Whatever your issue may be, _do not open an issue_. Instead, open a _discussion_ on the Hyprland repository.

Reviewer: Again, I think the aggressive tone is not helping anyone. I kinda understand that we don't want the issues tab to be what Turks call a "Yolgeçen hanı" (somewhere anyone of any origin comes and goes) but we also shouldn't treat the users as garbage. Using gentler wording would go much further imo.

### Before you start a discussion

_Search the discussions and issues thoroughly_. It's likely that there's already one open for your bug / feature that you can
just "like" instead of wasting both your time writing a new one and our time closing it and redirecting you.

### The lifecycle of a discussion

A discussion is opened by a user.

For bugs:
- If a discussion is solved, user error, or not a hyprland issue, it gets closed.
- If a discussion is a Hyprland problem, but cannot be tied to Hyprland in a clear way, or is not reproducible, it stays a discussion until that changes.
- If a discussion is reproducible, a member of Hyprland promotes the discussion to an issue by opening an issue with the key information and links the original discussion.

For feature requests:

> - If a discussion describes a feature request that is already possible, invalid, or not applicable, it gets closed.

Reviewer 2: RE: https://github.com/hyprwm/hyprland-wiki/pull/1024#issuecomment-2776941585
Maybe these lines should be clarified a little bit with your definition of "possible"? For example:
- If a discussion describes a feature request that is already possible (either already exists as a Hyprland feature, or can be trivially implemented with a script), invalid, or not applicable, it gets closed.

Reviewer 3: I understand better yes, but if that what it means I would just not make it an issue. I would not just close the discussion but more :

- mark a comment as answer containing the script amor the link to the wiki 
- if the wiki page doesn't exist block the discussion without closing it until wiki page is done
- for a script a believe a trivial example should be given
- then close discussion

Those discussion can later server as documentation, or if answers are somehow linked to a more general issue, could indicate that people might what an easier way to implement it, or a more accessible way, smth like a "how to do specifically this" wiki page

I don't know how much you want to be precise here, but a puml state diagram to explain the process to fix it might be a good idea

Reviewer 2: > i'm not asking you to do it, i'm asking you not to close the discussion until a script has been provided to answer the discussion, by anyone

Maybe there could be a tag, like `can-be-scripted` or similar, for these sorts of discussions? Then people that want to can search by that tag and then make and post scripts for them. Could also have a second `has-been-scripted` tag and, once someone makes a (confirmed working) script for it, switch tags.

> - If a discussion describes a feature request that is already possible, invalid, or not applicable, it gets closed.

Reviewer: In hindsight I think this entire document would be much better if it was done in the RFC repository. Missed opportunity imo.

> - If a discussion describes a feature that is _not_ already possible, it stays a discussion.

Reviewer 2: Nit: These should probably have consistent wording, rather than saying "feature request" for the first line and just "feature" for the other two

> - If a discussion describes a feature that is _not_ possible, and it gathers enough attention, a member may promote it to an issue by opening an issue with the key information and links the original discussion.

Reviewer 2: Another minor nit, the second line says "already possible" whereas the third just says "possible"

Please note we are all volunteers and our numbers are small, so issues may stay idle.

### Gathering attention for your discussion / a discussion you care about

Avoid posting comments such as "when fix?". Instead, use the thumbs up
reaction under the discussion, or issue (if one exists).

If a discussion has reached 5 "likes" or more, and it hasn't been promoted, you may ping a member in the discussion

> (`@vaxerski` or `@fufexan` are the most likely ones to work)

Reviewer: Mention me as well. I might not be able to help with technical issues, but I did volunteer for triage before and I'm happy to aid with Nix related issues anytime.

Author: :+1:

> ***Do not*** ping the members just because a discussion is stale, or failed to gather attention. It's your job to gather attention
> for it!

Reviewer: This is a bit circular, no? Pinging the members *does* get attention.

```suggestion
Please ***do not*** ping the members just because the discussion has become stale, or failed to gather attention. If that is the case, attempt to bring it back on track by posting *further* relevant information that might spark a discussion.
```

---
title: Issue Guidelines
---

Due to the influx of low quality or incomprehensible issues,
we prefer to begin possible bug reports or feature requests as *discussions*,

> and elevate them to issues if they can be confirmed by a member to be relevant,

Reviewer 2: What exactly makes someone a "member" rather than just a user? Does that mean "people in the hyprwm Github org" or "all Hyprland contributers" or something else?

Author: in github terms, that's a person in the org.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39f21795-6efa-4d6c-880c-12939c56960b)

- If a discussion describes a feature that is already possible (via scripts, features, or official tools), invalid, or not applicable, it gets closed.
- If a discussion describes a feature that is _not_ already possible, it stays a discussion.
- If a discussion describes a feature that is _not_ already possible, and it gathers enough attention, a member may promote it to an issue by opening an issue with the key information and links the original discussion.

Please note we are all volunteers and our numbers are small, so issues may stay idle.

### Gathering attention for your discussion / a discussion you care about

Avoid posting comments such as "when fix?". Instead, use the thumbs up
reaction under the discussion, or issue (if one exists).

If a discussion has reached 5 "likes" or more, and it hasn't been promoted, you may ping a member in the discussion
(`@vaxerski`, `@fufexan` or `@notashelf` are the most likely ones to work)

Please ***do not*** ping the members just because the discussion has become stale,
or failed to gather attention. If that is the case, attempt to bring it back
on track by posting *further* relevant information that might spark a discussion,

> or tell people interested about the discussion so that they can "like" it.

Reviewer 2: > or tell people interested about the discussion so that they can "like" it

I think this is a good idea, my only concern would be that some people might interpret this to mean "spam a link to the discussion in the Discord server to make people pay attention to this". That's probably not an issue that can/should be solved here, but might be something to clarify in the Discord rules.
